Title: The Case of the Popped Balloons
Author: Monica Valentinelli
Illustrator: Kelly Latham
Narrator: Jesse
Chapter: Tanner Goes Missing
There are three things I love with all my heart: attending Miss Adelaide’s Travelling Academy of Circus Arts, my grandmother’s silk top hat, and hanging out with my best friend, Tanner. This morning I’m happier than usual, because today is not a typical school day. Today is Test Day, the day all third year students take a special test that determines which circus art we’ll study. Next year, I’ll be studying one special skill: Animal Training, Juggling, Music & Band, Tightrope, Trampoline, or Ringleading. My name is Jesse Chipperfield, and I’m going to be in the circus.
I’m so excited I get up early, put on a pair of overalls, a red-and-white striped shirt, and my fancy top hat. As soon as I’m ready, I run to Tanner’s house without any breakfast. 
Jesse: C’mon Tanner, we don’t want to be late! Open up!
Tanner:Hang on a second!
[Image 1 - Jesse is knocking on Tanner’s front door. She’s got long hair, a pair of overalls, a striped shirt, and a large top hat. Wearing tennis shoes.]
A few minutes later, Tanner steps out onto the front porch. Only today, Tanner doesn’t seem like his usual cheerful and well-dressed self. He’s not wearing a fancy bow tie or a polka-dotted shirt. Today, he’s wearing a long, flowing cape with a “T” on the back, a gold, one-piece jumpsuit, and a black pair of knee-high boots.
Tanner:Do you like my costume?
Jesse: It’s, uh… Cool!
Tanner:My big brother let me borrow it. For luck.
At first, I don’t know what to say. We can wear costumes to school, but Tanner doesn’t usually dress up. I’m worried that something is wrong. I want to make sure he’s feeling okay, otherwise I’ll be too worried about him to take my test—and then we’ll both be miserable.  
Question: What costume is Tanner wearing?
*Police Officer 
*Librarian
*Lion 
*Superhero
Tanner:I don’t like the roaring lions. Too noisy. UGH!
Jesse:You don’t sound like yourself. Are you sick?
Tanner:No, I just keep thinking about everything that can go wrong today. What if my test says I should be a ringleader? Or an acrobat? My life will be over. Ruined!
Jesse:Hmmm… What do you want to study?
Tanner:Music and Band.  I want to play a shiny brass trumpet!
That’s when I notice Tanner’s hands are shaking and beads of sweat are dripping down his forehead. I can tell Tanner isn’t excited about Test Day, and I don’t know how to cheer him up. I turn to ask him a question, but Tanner has pulled his cape over his head!
[Image 2: - Tanner and Jesse are at the wagon stop on a gravelly/dirt road. A circus wagon pulled by four horses with feathers on their heads is coming toward them. Tanner is wearing a cape, spandex suit, and knee-high boots. He has pulled the cape over his head. Jesse is still wearing the clothes from Image 1: long hair, a pair of overalls, a striped shirt, and a large top hat. Wearing tennis shoes. Tanner is black and has an afro.]
Jesse: What’s wrong now?
Tanner:What if our wagon is late? What if I my pencil breaks? I…
Jesse: It’ll be okay. I promise. Just take a deep breath. 
I hear the clop-clop of the horses coming up the road. Our ride is here!
Question: How does Tanner feel about taking the test?
*Angry
*Happy
*Scared
*Nervous 
The ride to Miss Adelaide’s Travelling Circus School is long and slow. As soon as the circus wagon stops in front of the school’s red-and-white striped Welcome Tent, I tug Tanner’s cape, hop off, and shout back to him.
[Image 4: Would LOVE to get a picture of a traditional horse-drawn circus wagon clomping along on a gravelly road. The horses have feathers on their heads; the circus wagon is the school’s bus and has several seats for the kids. ]
Jesse: Let’s go, Tanner! I’ll race you to the big clock!
Tanner:I’m right behind you.
[Image 5:Jesse is running toward a sign that reads “Miss Adelaide’s Travelling Circus School”. Behind it, the Welcome Tent looms large; it’s a rectangular tent with stripes on the top.]
Tanner usually wins, but not this time. Today, I plan on beating him. I skip past my classmates and sprint into the big tent. I rush inside and bounce off of a giant, cat-shaped balloon. I turn around to see what’s going on and I can’t believe my eyes! 
[Image 6:Jesse is punching balloons of various sizes and ridiculous shapes. There’s one shaped like a duck, unicorn, broccoli, a clown’s face, etc.]
The tent is filled with balloons of every color, shape, and size imaginable—even broccoli-and-unicorn shaped! Did Tanner blow up all these balloons? Where did they come from? I’m so mad, I punch the balloons out of my way until I reach the tall, black clock at the back of the tent.
I turn around to celebrate my victory. Except… Tanner isn’t behind me. There are so many balloons in the Welcome Tent it’s hard to see through them! I jump up and crouch down and push a balloon out of my way—but I don’t see him anywhere. I know Tanner was nervous about Test Day. Maybe he’s hiding? Or maybe he ran straight to class?
BigQuestion: Where is Tanner?
I don’t want Tanner to miss Test Day. Where did he go? The Welcome Tent is a big rectangle that connects to other areas of the school. There are three, brightly-colored tent flaps that lead to the Zoo, the Big Top, and our classrooms. 
[Image 7: Jesse is facing 3 different tent flaps that have hints of different things going on in them.]
There’s so many balloons in my way, that I have to crawl my way over to the tent flaps to escape. I push my top hat down on my head and decide to open one.  One is polka dotted. One is striped. And one has a picture of [artists choice]…
[QuestionTitle: Which tent flap did Tanner go under?]
<CHOICE START>
[Choice: Which tent flap should Jesse look under?]
*Polka Dotted
<Polka Dotted>
*Striped
<Striped>
*Shooting Star
<Shooting Star>
*I Know the Answer
<Continue>

<Polka Dotted>
The polka dotted flap leads to a long, narrow hallway. There are no students or balloons or bouncy balls or anything in it. I decide to walk down the hall anyway, and soon I come to a huge set of flappy, canvas doors—it’s the Big Top! Is Tanner in here? I look around the hallway and spot something glittery on the ground. 
<GO CHOICE START>
<Striped>
I peek through the striped tent flap. There are no balloons in this hallway! I stand up tall and start running—except I trip on a long, black hose and fall on my butt. Ow! That’s when I notice a red clown shoe and a large tank. The words “Danger,” “Gas,” and “Fire Hazard” are printed on it. 
Tanner isn’t here, so I get back up and run to the end of the hallway. I can hear the elephants trumpeting and the lions roaring loudly! The Zoo is on my left, and the Big Top is on my right. Tanner is scared of lions, so I don’t think he’d be here!
<GO CHOICE START>
<Shooting Star>
I crawl through the tent flap with [artist picture] on it, and a balloon hits me right in the nose. There’s more balloons in this hallway, but not as many as there are in the Welcome Tent. Some backpacks are propped up against the tent walls, and a few students rush back to their classroom tents. At the end of the hallway, there’s an arrow that points to the classrooms and another toward the Big Top. I don’t think Tanner would go to class. Hmmm….
<GO CHOICE START>
<Continue>
[Question: Which Tent did Tanner go into?]
*The Polka Dotted Flap
*The Striped Flap
*The Shooting Star Flap
*He didn't go under a flap.
I follow the polka dotted hallway, to the Big Top. I shout after Tanner, but he doesn’t answer. When I get closer to the Big Top’s entrance, I see a group of students leading Tanner inside. Who are they? I don’t think I’ve ever met them before! 
The students are dressed strangely: black pants, black-and-white striped shirts, and white gloves. Their faces are painted bright white. Red circles dot their cheeks and their lips are cherry-red. Four thin, black diamonds are painted above and below their eyes. 
[Image 8:A group of three mimes pulling Tanner—wearing spandex and knee-high boots but no cape—into the Big Top.]
As soon as I enter the massive Big Top, I sneeze—AH-AH-CHOO!—I’m allergic to hay! The ground is covered with hay and sawdust that makes my noise itch and my eyes water. Blargh!
Jesse: Tanner, we have to go! We’ll—achoo!—be late for the test!
Tanner:No! Can’t go now! Have to figure this out. 
Jesse: What are you talking about? Figure WHAT out?
Tanner:What the mimes are trying to tell me!
[Image 9: Jesse is standing in a circus ring. There’s hay on the ground. She is sneezing. All three mimes are mimicking her sneezing. AH-CHOO!]
Jesse: Wait, aren’t mimes a type of clown? Miss Adelaide doesn’t allow clowns in school. 
Tanner:Really? Guess this really is important, then. Why else would they sneak in?
I make a face, wipe my snot on my sleeve, and then hold my nose. Then, I walk over to Tanner and try to ignore the mimes who are copying every move I make.
[Question: Why Did Tanner Go into the Big Top?]
*Tanner is hiding.
*Tanner is avoiding his test.
*Tanner is trying to figure out the mimes’ message.
*Tanner was kidnapped by mimes.
The mimes nod and pull up the corners of their mouths into a smile. Then, one of them honks their nose and clops around like their feet are WAY too big for them. That’s strange… Why would a mime warn us about another big shoed clown?
Jesse:Huh. My Dad told me about mimes. They’re clowns who don’t use words or props to communicate.
Tanner:Exactly! They use movements to show what they’re saying instead!
[Image 10: Two of the mimes are mimicking balloons. Bloated, round, big. Big, dopey smiles on their faces.]
Tanner:Miss Adelaide doesn’t want any clowns on school grounds. She thinks they cause too much trouble. Why are these mimes here?
Jesse: They’re trying to tell us something. One of them raised three fingers. They must have three more things to say.
BigQuestion: What are the mimes trying to say?
Tanner:Okay, let’s focus on the first word. Looks like something round, squiggly, and… bouncy?
Jesse: That’s easy. I know what that means!
[Image 10: The mimes are showing off a sequence of events. One mime is holding an invisible hose “connected” to another mime (they’re pretending to be a balloon). That mime is sucking in air or is puffing out their cheeks to show they’re inflating.]
Question:What Does Jesse Think the Mimes’ First Word Is?
*Balloons
*Fat
*Under Water
*Cheeks

Jesse:That’s strange. The second word doesn’t make any sense. They’re breathing?
Tanner:I don’t think that’s right. Look again.The mimes are showing us something that happened. It has something to do with that mimes’ pretend hose.
Jesse: Hmmm. That gives me an idea.
Image 11: The mimes are blowing gas at eachother
Question: What Does Jesse Think the Mimes’ Second Message is About?
* The balloons were blown up.
* Happy birthday!
* There's a lion in the gym.
* The mime is on fire.


Tanner:“Well, duh. What’s so bad about balloons filled up with gas?”
Jesse: “I don’t know. Maybe we should see what their last message is.”
Tanner:“Yeah, good idea. Okay, well… They’re laughing and acting strange. What does that mean?”
[Image 12: The mimes are laughing and standing precariously on one leg as if they’re floating in the air.]
Jesse: “Oh no… Tanner, we have to run back to class and warn everybody!”
Question: What Does Jesse Think the Mimes’ Final Message is About?
*The balloons are filled with laughing gas.
*They need help hanging balloons.
*The lion in the gym is laughing.
*They think ballons are funny.
BigQuestion: Who Released the Balloons into the School?]
Tanner is a faster runner than I am. He beats me to our classroom tent. I rush in and almost knock Tanner over. At first, nothing seems out of the ordinary. There are no balloons or students or teachers or—desks or chairs or hula hoops… Weird!
Then, Tanner and I hear someone giggle. Our entire classroom—bouncy balls, desks, teacher, principal, students—are all floating up, up, up to the top of the tent.
Miss Adelaide: Up here!
Tanner: Oh my gosh! It’s Miss Adelaide! You’re all so high up!
[Image 13: Jesse and Tanner look up. Several students, their principal Miss Adelaide, a bouncy ball, pencils, desks, etc. are all floating in the air. They look like they’re swimming. Miss Adelaide is a granny-looking lady with a bun and tiny reading glasses.]
Miss Adelaide: Well, of course we are, Tanner Newbury. Hah, hah! Someone filled balloons with Giggle Gas. When they popped, we started laughing, and up we went with all our stuff! Giggle Gas is so light—hee, hee—it makes you float! Do you know who did this?
Question: Who is Responsible for Releasing the Balloons?
*A Clown with Red Shoes
*A Mime Dressed in Black
*A Lion Tamer
*Miss. Adelaide
Jesse:I know who played the prank. Some mimes warned us about a red-nosed clown.”
MissAdelaide:“A clown! That’s hilarious! Did the mimes tell you how to get us down?”
Tanner:“No, they didn’t. Sorry.”
MissAdelaide: “Oh, dear. Hee.! Tee hee!”
MissAdelaide: swims through the air. Her glasses are float off of her nose. I try not to laugh—but it’s so hard not to! I look around the room to see if I can find anything to help get everyone down. I notice a cabinet at the back of the classroom. Maybe we can find the solution in there! The cabinet is filled with potions and powders.
Tanner:“Which bottle should we try?”
MissAdelaide: “Find the opposite of giggling! Something similar will make this worse! Hah, hah, hah!”
Jesse: “Opposite, huh? I think that’s an antonym.”
Question:Which Bottle Will Cure the Effects of Giggle Gas?
*Frowning Dust
*Kissing Powder
*Laughing Smoke
*Clown Repellent

The next day, Tanner and I are awarded a gold star for our help—and five points extra credit! Not only did we find out a mysterious clown released balloons filled with giggle gas, we helped our classmates return to the ground unharmed.
[Image 14:Tanner is wearing fancy bow tie, polka-dotted shirt, and suspenders. Jesse is wearing her hair braided, has her top hat on, and is wearing an oversized sweater, leggings, and bunny slippers. They are walking in a tent filled with people. There is a clown sneaking around/hiding! ] 
Although everyone is safe (and our big test is OVER), I would love to know who the mysterious clown is—and where those mimes went! Hopefully, I’ll find out… and hopefully I pass my circus test!
THE END
